E-Audio Gallery
Under esteem guidance of:
Mrs. 
StitapragyanMohanty
Presented by:
Akash Kumar Gouda (Regd
Naik (Regd
Manasmita
Lila Madhuri Sahoo (
No. 217/16 )
Regd
No. 233/16 )
Suchismita
Subhashree
Sahoo (Regd
No.255/16 )
Santy (Regd
No. 259/16 )
No. 262/16)
Content
1. Introduction
2. Objectives
3. Existing System
4. Software and hardware Requirements
5. Module description
6. Process Model Diagram
7. Database Diagram
8. UML Diagrams
9. Testing
10.Sample from screenshots
11.Summary and future scope
Introduction
• E- Audio Gallery is a Web application developed in Django framework using Python programming language.
• We can feel the importance of audio in our daily life.
• In today’s world, running behind the goals and responsibilities, we people sometimes fail to know when we 
become the part of this rat race. 
• Music acts like a medicine for the people who suffer from depression, anxiety which leads to severe health issues.
• Our mood swings within less time. This project is strongly motivated from the fact that  predefined playlist may 
not always be helpful. 
• Speech is the most natural way to express our emotion. So, it is important to recognize the speech emotion to 
recommend the songs accordingly.
• People refresh themself by reading different type of books, watching movies, going outside for a holiday, listening 
music etc. Among these refreshment activities music has the maximum impact on most of the people.
• We listen music during workout section, while driving, while doing some official work or during bed time also.
• Through this application user can choose audio books of his/her choice and listen music at any place and any time 
with the access of internet. 
• Sometimes we want to just lay down and listen someone reading the book. So we can choose audio books of our 
choice and refresh ourselves.
Objectives
The main objectives of this project are:
• To develop a music store where users can get songs as per their preferences and also 
suggested song by analyzing their previous playlist.
• This application can able to recognize the speech along with the emotions present in that speech 
and according to the current emotion of the user songs are recommended.
• Help the people to convert their English reading content in form of audio which can be listened in 
Hindi and English as per the choice.
• To help the music enthusiasts in checking different music genres.
Existing System
• AllMusic: Not customizable 
• JioSaavn: Allows to browse songs according to artists, new releases, and albums. But no 
recommendation for user.
• Spotify: Good user accessibility features to play songs and recommends user with other songs 
of similar genre without emotion-based music recommendation for user.
• Musicovery: High quality songs and comprehensive music recommendations. But it also 
suggests predefined play-list for the user.
• Moodfuse: User should manually enter mood and genre that wants to be heard and mood fuse 
recommends the songs-list.
• Steromood: User should select his mood manually from the list and the application plays 
music from YouTube. 
Software and Hardware Systems
Software Specification
Operating System: Windows
Framework: Django 2.2
Programming Language: Python
Front-end: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap
Database: PostgreSQL
Hardware Specification
As this will be a Web app, a PC/Laptop with Windows 10 or higher with at least 4 GB of RAM and 
integrated HD graphics 5500or higher is required.
Module Description
1. Accounts Creation:
• Register: New user can signup using this module with valid details.
• Login: After successfully registered, user can then login with his credentials.
• MyProfile: User can update or  delete profile, change password or reset forgotten password 
2. Admin: Admin has higher privileged. He can do all activities. He can add, modify, delete, view all the music and audio books, 
reply feedbacks and user queries. 
3. TestSpeechEmo: This module records user’s voice and detect its emotion using MLP Classifier algorithm. 
4. Music:
• EmotionBasedSong: It fetches the emotion detected and language and recommend songs based on emotion and selected 
language.
• ClassifyGenre: This module takes user query(audio file) and classifies the song genre using KNN classifier.
• Recommended: It gives music recommendation by analyzing playlist of user (most liked genre type) 
• PlayMusic: This module covers playing music of different genres, emotions, and artists in user selected language.
5. AudioBook:
• MakeAudioBook: This module takes pdf file of book in English language which user likes, with page number(from which page to 
which page) the system will convert to audio and return audiobook version the same or of Hindi language.
• PlayAudioBook: This module covers playing audiobook of different genres, emotions, and artists in user selected language.
Process Model Diagram
ER Diagram
Database Design
Level 0 DFD
Data Flow Diagram
Level 1 DFD
Level 2 DFD
Use case Diagram
UML Diagrams
Class Diagram
Activity Diagram (User)
Activity Diagram (Admin)
Sequence Diagram
(Admin)
Sequence Diagram
(User)
Testing
Testing is a process to show the correctness of the program. Testing is needed to show completeness, it 
improve the quality of the software and to provide the maintenance aid.
There are two approaches of test case design
i) Blackbox Testing
Blackbox testing or behavioral testing, focuses on the functional requirements of software. This testing attempts to find 
the
errors like- incorrect or missing functions, Interface errors, Errors in data structures or external database access, Behavior 
or performance errors. Initialization and termination errors
In Blackbox testing software is exercised over a full range of inputs and outputs are observed for correctness.
ii) Whitebox Testing
Whitebox or Glass box testing which is a test case design control structure of the procedural design to derive test cases. 
Using Whitebox testing method, the software engineer can derive the test cases that guarantee that all independent 
paths within the module have been exercised at least once. Exercise all logic decisions on their true and false sides. 
Execute all loops at their boundaries and within their operational bounds. Exercise internal data structure to ensure their 
validity.
Testing involves
a) Unit Testing
Unit testing is a kind of testing of every unit of the software which is a part of the combined code and its phase. 
It can however be done in two phases. And while developing  the three approaches are used namely the top 
down, the bottom up and the isolation part but here in our chat system we are using the top down procedure. 
…
First we check for the first form where the names of the systems are correctly placed, there is individual test for 
each machine learning algorithms used. Secondly we check for the secon-d form which consists of a Speech 
emotion recognition part , third form is to check the text to audio conversion, next we check the music genre 
classification ensuring a two way communication finally ensuring a successful testing.
b) Integration Testing
After the unit testing is done we are going to check if the modules are properly integrated.
Integration testing is one of the agile methodologies of software testing where individual components or units of 
code are tested to validate interactions among different software system modules. In this process, these system 
components are either tested as a single group or organized iteratively.
There are some common testing types may comes under integration testing
System integration Testing: The term verification and the validation is done here. Verification means the 
software for consistency which includes methods of reviewing and analyzing.
Logical Testing: This is used to test every aspect of both report and query using valid, invalid and extreme 
data . Sufficient data will be added to ensure that there is at least one entry in each category and adding new 
data, which will be deleted later when the test works satisfactorily.
Here we have tested situations like whether the songs and audio books are added to playlist not when user 
choose that option.
Functional Testing: Here the menu item is tested to ensure that nothing is missing out so that the app can 
work well without any issue
Sample from Snapshots










Summary
• In this modern era and busy lifestyle, music acts as a medicine and gives positive effect on health. There 
are various apps or sites  like gaana.com, Spotify, JioSavan which fulfills our music requirements. But 
apart of these, our project has some new features such as Voice-Emotion based music 
recommendation, pdf to audio conversion in your preferred language(Hindi or English) and music 
genre classification interfaces are provided.
• Our project will help a lot to the people in identifying their current moods quickly then listening audio 
accordingly and music of their favorite genres. Hence E- Audio Gallery is the prominent and useful 
website for all music and audio book lovers.
Future Scope
In future Expansion, following features can be added for this Web-based application
• As voice recognition based music is recommended, so we will train with large number of dataset and 
apply different types of algorithm to increase accuracy of emotion recognition from the user.
• Develop the android version of the application.
• Adding payment options for different types of users.
• cloud integration for more bandwidth storage.
• Enhancing Security.
References
[1] Massarotto, Sofia. "Music streaming platforms and the evolution of the music industry." (2021).
[2] Elbir, Ahmet, et al. "Music genre classification and recommendation by using machine learning techniques." 2018 
Innovations in Intelligent Systems and Applications Conference (ASYU). IEEE, 2018.
[3] Jahangir, Rashid, et al. "Deep learning approaches for speech emotion recognition: state of the art and research 
challenges." Multimedia Tools and Applications (2021): 1-66.
.python.org/doc
[4] Speech Emotion Recognition using MLP Classifier, Sanjita. B. R1, Nipunika. A2, Rohita Desai3, Department of ECM, 
Sreenidhi Institute of Technology and Science, Telangana, India
[5] www
[6] https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2
[7] Black Book- Server Programming
[8] Software Engineering by Roger S. Pressman
[9] www.w3schools.com
[10] www.tutorialspoint.com
[11] www
.quora.com
[12] www
.spotify.com
[13] www
.allmusic.com
[14] www.jiosaavn.com
[15] moodfuse.com
Thank You!